---
title: "How To Create A Blog On WordPress? [2020]"
date: "2019-12-01"
categories: 
  - "blogging"
  - "website"
  - "wordpress"
tags: 
  - "blogging-2020"
  - "start-a-blog"
coverImage: "Clipboard.jpg"
---

I was sitting idle and didn't know what to do? I wanted to do something badly and one day I found [Quora](https://sastaeinstein.com/motivation-for-learning-new-things-and-tough-times/) and was very excited about it. If you don't know it, then it is one of the Questions & Answer sites.

I found one of the bloggers there sharing his journey of online blogging and teaching people while writing and learning at the same time.

**But the thing that actually impressed me, is you can earn while doing all this... Later in the journey.** 

First was to get started! I thought, whoa as I am idle and it requires very less capital to get started so I jumped right in taking all the challenges and efforts to make it a popular blog out there.

I know I can learn things only if I get started. There is no such thing like to learn everything about it without actually experiencing it. If anyone tells you that, my friend they themselves have no idea.

**Let me tell you before you judge me out, yes, I hesitated to get started. I wasn't ready to invest the money in something I don't have a clue about, and that's another thing that having your own website is cool.** 

So, you're not alone... if you're overthinking to get started. I am writing this post just for you, to teach that it's all right to get started and try things out. Once you started, I promise you'll stand out soon just like me.

**This current month and upcoming days are special to get a big loot out there. This is exactly what I did last 2 years back.** 

Let's see what you need to get started,

- [Web Hosting](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/hostinger/ "hostinger")
- [Domain Name](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/hostinger/ "hostinger")
- [Perfect & Fast Theme](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/astrapro/ "AstraPro")
- [Amalinks Pro](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/amalinkspro/ "AmalinksPro") (If you're planning to start Amazon Affiliate Site)

This is the special days to grab a loot on deals, yes I am talking about **Black Friday Deal.** Everyone goes out for shopping right? Last 2 years back, I remember that I ditched shopping for clothes and invested that amount into this hosting and themes to get my first blog which I actually own myself.

Checkout deals yourself below and sees why it's worth buying and keeping it now rather than buying it at normal prices later in 2020.

**Caution: Amazing Deals Ahead!**

## Not Sure That You're Fit For Blogging? Grab Hostinger.

## Hostinger 90% OFF

Get Domain + Hosting + SSL Only For Black Friday [Grab It Now](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/hostinger) Black Friday

## Not Sure But Want To Be Serious About Blogging And Get Best Hosting Out There? Try BlueHost.

## Bluehost 70% OFF

Just $2.95/Mo For World Class Hosting [Grab It Now](https://sastaeinstein.com/go/bluehost) 70% OFF

Before getting the deals, I suggest you read this whole article to get an idea of how blogging might be for you! If you're a reader wanting to start a blog right away then I suggest you read this complete article showing you [start a blog](https://sastaeinstein.com/start-blog-in-india/).

## Why You Should Start A Blogging In 2020?

There are many reasons why you should start blogging in 2020. I am going to list them all down to help you decide if blogging is going to work for you in 2020.

- There are still [dozen of niches](https://www.nichepursuits.com/best-niche-markets/) that are not competitive. You just need to search for them and start blogging on it. Niche Pursuit explained it in an amazing way.
- Secondly, there are niches that will grow much more in the upcoming year. Growing simply states that they are a lot of people out there searching for those niche services and products or simply information.
- **Google,** don't worry about it. The amazing quality content never gets lost even if you don't know much about SEO. But once, you get started you'll know about SEO. You can join plenty of Blogging Groups on Facebook where people teach you for free.

## Will I Be Able To Become A Successful Blogger After Starting This Late?

Why not? Ask yourself.

**If you work hard for something, you achieve many things.** 

Obviously, I'm not claiming that you'll become a millionaire overnight but it takes time.

I've seen bloggers starting out and their blogs growing out just in 6 months making them around $200-$500 a month.

It depends upon the efforts you're putting in, the investment you're putting in and dedication towards it.

My tip for you is to **[get started](#getstarted).** Never overthink, if this is the only choice you have. Later after getting started, you yourself will be aware of your investments made and will figure something out to make something out of it.

It's human Psychology.

## How Will I Earn After Starting My First Blog?

Yes, this is definitely the question every blogger now have.

As I said, you'll never become a millionaire by just starting out. There is no such thing as **Easy Money.**

You start earning when your blog reaches a stage where,

- You start getting traffic by [tweaking SEO](https://sastaeinstein.com/simple-seo-tricks/)
- You are ranked on the first pages of the target keyword you choose
- You put efforts into [monetizing your blog](https://sastaeinstein.com/top-10-highest-paying-cpm-ad-networks-you-can-use-on-your-blog/) effectively
- Invest in [good tools](https://sastaeinstein.com/9-wonderful-wordpress-plugins/) as you grow
- Do [affiliate marketing](https://sastaeinstein.com/best-affiliate-programs-for-bloggers/) with your blog

## What Other Benefits I Would Get By Starting A Blog?

There are many, to be honest, and I really love those benefits and I hope you will too.

- Make your blog as a brand later as it grows
- Make your presence online
- Connect with brands for sponsorships, advertising as you grow and depending on niche.

[Start Your Blog Now](#getstarted)

If you're still not sure if to start one, then you can always reach out to me to discuss things. I am here helping you all out.

You can also drop in the comments below, so I can get to you ASAP.
